**Clairvoyance** is an interdisciplinary field that unites sociology and
[Thaumaturgy](Thaumaturgy "wikilink") for the prediction of events in
the long term. Built on the work of Clairvoyant [Tormansco the
Oracle](Tormansco_the_Oracle "wikilink"), the field is sometimes
considered a branch of metamathematics due to its foundation in Gallenan
Algebra. The implementation of Clairvoyancy requires large quantities of
[mana](Mana "wikilink") to permit [reading
stones](Reading_Stones "wikilink") to provide a noticeable output. The
Field is only effective at large-scale prediction, due to limitations
put in place by reading stones. Technical advancements have worked to
decrease the Mana strain that the field has, as well as lowering
processing times for reading arrays at scale as a practical application
of quantum computing.

# History

## The Golden Age of Clairvoyance

# Terminology

The Field of Clairvoyance has a unique set of terminology in order to
describe what is happening in the field or within an Oracle.

An **Equation** is any input that can be responded to by a reading stone
or a series of reading stones with a strong answer.

An **Answer** is the output from a reading stone or a series of reading
stones.

An **Oracle** is any person or device that can give answers to
equations.

The **Strength** of an answer describes how easy it is to read the
answer to an equation. The simpler the equation, the stronger the answer
usually is. Strength is quantified into Thaums (Th).

The **Freshness** of an answer is how few people know an answer to an
equation. The more spoiled an answer is- the more people know the
answer- the more inaccurate it becomes. How quickly an answer spoils
varies by the field.

# Oracles

Oracles are persons or machines that are used to calculate the results
of Clairvoyant equations. The earliest Oracles utilized [reading
stones](Reading_Stones "wikilink") for divination, this profession would
give the modern equipment its name. Following the discovery of Gallenan
Algebra and the standardization of the field by [Tormansco the
Oracle](Tormansco_the_Oracle "wikilink"), flesh-and-blood Oracles began
to see employment among major corporations in order to predict the
future. However, due to the inefficiencies of natural language combined
with weak outputs from reading stones, only simple equations could give
reliable answers. Following innovations by //person//, tools were
invented to supplement Oracles to provide clearer and stronger answers
for less mana. These Mana-Magnetic Enhancifiers would later be combined
with Electric Computers to produce the first Electric Oracles. These
Oracles could calculate far more complex equations and provide reliable
and easily readable answers. Most famous is the Grand Oracle in
//Nation//, constructed in //Year// by //Company//.

## Oracle Architecture

Electric Oracles are complex devices, comprising of many parts and
materials, being among the most expensive computing devices in the
world. Most Oracles have 3 sections: the Reading Array, the Gallenan
Calculator, and the Checking Circuit. The Reading Array is what allows
the Oracle to function. It is a board with various Reading Stones put
into it, with Mana and Electricity running into the Reading Stones in
order to give inputs and outputs for equations given to the Oracle. The
Gallenan Calculator converts Clairvoyant Equations into electrical
inputs that the Reading Array can answer, the output of the calculator
is the answer to the Equation. The Checking Circuit utilizes the
Tormansco Universe Number in order to adjust the inputs of the Gallenan
Calculator in order to make answers fresh. This Circuit uses a reading
stone to verify that the information from the Gallenan Calculator is
accurate, and can stop the calculation in the event of a catastrophic
failure. It is the simplest part of any Oracle.

[Category:Magical studies](Category:Magical_studies "wikilink")