**Erothena**, officially known as **The Repbulic of Erothena**, is a
tropical country located on the eastern end of (X) and the southern half
of (DINO PENINSULA). The country is split by the (CANAL) with the lands
west of it a dry savannah rich in mana deposits, as well as including
occupied [Dwerchus](Dwerchus "wikilink"), and east of the (CANAL)
tree-rich savannahs give way to tropical jungle in the far north.
Geographically, Erothena borders [\[Name
Pending](Name_Pending "wikilink")\] in the north-west,
[Lu'umil](Lu'umil "wikilink") in the north-east,
[Nevexyl](Nevexyl "wikilink") in the west and
[Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink") to the south. It is the third largest
nation on the continent by area.

Erothenian [Elven](Elf "wikilink") civilization arose millennia ago as
one of the first magic-using civilizations in the world. Urendir, as it
was traditionally called, was governed by powerful hereditary monarchs
that oversaw an expanding empire that reached beyond even the modern
borders of Erothena. Throughout the pre-industrial era Urendin magitech
was among the most advanced in the world but as the industrial
revolution the empire became surpassed and humiliated by its rivals,
culminating in the end of the monarchy in the June Revolution that
established a pluralistic republic.

The Erothenian government has been criticized for sapient rights abuses
and systemic discrimination especially in its military occupation of
[Dwerchus](Dwerchus "wikilink") that has been ongoing since 1998.

## History

### Ancient Elven Kingdom

The kingdom of Urendir appeared around the end of the third millenium
BCE, centered around the mana deposits of modern day Thinetavu. For much
of its early history the kingdom was only one of many elven city states
across southern Erothena but over time Urendir would grow in power with
their readily available mana allowing the creation of effective
irrigation and agriculture, swelling the population of its capital city.

### Urendin Empire (1700s-1938)

After Urendir Xathaya ascended to the imperial throne in 1698 she
launched a military coup and formally suspended the Elder Council and
the kingdom's constitution, establishing a new era of royal absolutism.
During the century of her reign the era of Erothenian colonialism began
truly, with the foundation of [Port Tilive](Port_Tilive "wikilink") in
1748 to unify the so called String of Pearl Settlements on the southern
coast of modern day [Lu'umil](Lu'umil "wikilink") and the establishment
of client kingdoms in [Dwerchus](Dwerchus "wikilink") and
[Levantia-Malcadi](Levantia-Malcadi "wikilink").

### Revolution (1938)

The heavy cost of maintaining the Imperial Colonies and the slow pace of
industrialization lead to a deep financial crisis in the mid 1930s with
famine sweeping through the northern territories. Under mounting
pressure from an agitated population the king accepted the constitution
of 1936 that transferred more power to the Elder Council and the Royal
Chancellor appointed by the council. The new government struggled for
the next two years but the king repeatedly vetoed bills attempting to
alleviate the crisis. In May 1938 a cadre of soldiers commanded by
members of the low nobility seized control of the capital and declared
the constitution dissolved returning the king to absolute power.

In response to the May restoration popular uprisings sprang up across
Urendin, with both the royal armed forces and the powerful private
military of the Imperial Dwerchus Company siding with the rebels. The
king was forced to abdicate on June 16th with the declaration of the
Republic of Erothena.

### Early Republic and Dwerchus (1938-1950)

### "Golden Years" (1950-1985)

### Rise of the Megacorps (1985-1994)

### Second Dwerchus War (1994-1997)

### Civil Rights Era (1998-2020)

### Boom Years (2020-2060)

### Recent History (2061-)

## Government

Erothena is a unitary presidential republic. The president is both head
of state and head of government and is elected for a three-year term,
with the possibility of re-election for two successive terms. For the
presidential elections Erothena is divided into 331 electoral districts,
each providing a single electoral vote decided by first-past-the-post.

The legislative consist of the bicameral National Assembly.

### Congress of Equals

The lower house of the National Assembly is responsive for initiation
all legislation. Although any bill passed by the Congress can be
rejected by the Elder Council, a supermajority of the Congress can
bypass the upper house. All 425 members of the local house are directly
elected to represent individual constituencies through a
First-Past-the-Post system.

### Elder Council

The upper house of the National Assembly has an advisory and checking
role, they have final say in the appointment of cabinet members and
ambassadors and can delay or reject legislation that has passed the
Congress of Equals. The 105 members serve six year terms, 35 are
appointed by the President, 35 are appointed by regional legislatures
and the final 35 are directly elected on national lists.

## Culture

### Neo-Orcism

*Main Article: [Neo-Orcism](Neo-Orcism "wikilink")*

The Neo-Orcish movement arose during the early 21st century among
[orcish](Orc "wikilink") scholars and intelligentsia and centered around
the creation of a distinct Orcish identity in opposition to the leading
philosophy of integration into the greater Erothenian elven culture.

### Heraneres

*Main Article: [Heraneres](Heraneres "wikilink")*
Heraneres, also known as the Festival of Fire, the burning days or the
purification, is an Erothenian holiday celebrated at the end of the dry
season (and the end of the calendar year). The holiday is celebrated
over nine days, forming three segments known as Preparation,
Contemplation and Festival. Heranares focuses on the themes of renewal
and purification, with an emphasis on fire and all its symbolism.

One of the most famous events of the holiday is the fire dance, where
pyromancers carry notes where the community has written down their
regrets of the past year and ceremoniously burn them by dancing through
a great bonfire.

[Category:countries](Category:countries "wikilink")
[Category:Erothena](Category:Erothena "wikilink")