**Karmerin** or *Karmerinn*, unofficially known as the *Federated States
of Karmerin* is an archipelago located north of
[Levantia-Mercadi](Levantia-Mercadi "wikilink"). Karmerin is made up of
a number of free cities, kingdoms and republics all unified under a
single federal structure. The earliest settlements of sapient beings on
the islands were [mercadi](mercadi "wikilink") using the shallower bays
as safe havens. In the 1400s troll sailors began arriving from the west,
raiding the western coasts of Szamara. They established a number of
temporary bases and villages in what is modern day Levantia-Mercadi but
most were eventually abandoned, with the settlements on Karmerin
remaining the only permanent ones. The islands became divided between a
number of powerful chiefs who would lead raids against the surrounding
shores. Over the following centuries raids would become smaller as
stronger and more organized mainland kingdoms became better adapted at
defending against them and the Karmerin kingdoms focused increasingly on
their competition with eachother. In 18XX the [Kingdom of
Urendir](Erothena "wikilink") conquered many nearby island as part of
their colonization efforts and the local rulers of Karmerin negotiated a
surrender to the Urendin Empire, gaining special status from the rest of
the colony. After Levantia-Mercadi's independence, Karmerin remained an
Urendin crown colony and an important naval base.

Following the Erothenian revolution a growing Karmerin nationalism lead
to calls for independence. After a referendum in 19XX the Erothenian
National Assembly approved of the petition and the Republic of Karmerin
was granted formal independence. The new regime had immediate problems
as the islands were still mostly agrarian and undeveloped. The republic
racked up a great national debt as they attempted a rapid
industrialization with limited success. Tensions between the historical
kingdoms wanting to assert their traditional sovereignty often lead to a
political deadlock. The financial crisis of the 19XXs lead to a growing
communist insurgency opposed to the government, which after heavy
repression aligned itself with the seperatist regions and initiated the
[Karmerin Civil War](Karmerin_Civil_War "wikilink"). With the republic
at the threat of falling completely, the Karmerin armed forces launched
a coup and instituted total martial law under a military junta. With
significant aid from the [Alliance for Democratic
Szamara](Alliance_for_Democratic_Szamara "wikilink") the junta defeated
the opposing forces and ended the war after X years of bloody fighting.
A new constitution signed into place in 19XX restored democracy,
overseen by the ADS.

Since the resumption of elections Karmerin has been dominated by the
Unity Party which has taken a sharp term from the earlier
nationalization efforts. Lysey, the second largest island, was turned
into a corporate free zone to encourage foreign investments and has
grown into the wealthiest and most populous region of the federation.
Outside of Lysey, tourism is the by far most important portion of
Karmerin's economy with millions visiting the islands every year.