The **Korerida** Corporation is one of the four Erothenian
Megacorporations, with a near complete control of the nations mana
production. Korerida operates worldwide and holds complete sovereignty
in the Mana Region of Dwerchus which is directly owned by the
corporation. All companies within the congolomorate are owned and
controlled by the Korerida Holding Company which is under the private
ownership of the Korerida family.

## History

The Korerida corporation was founded as a talisman manufacturer in the
year 1908 by Korerida Bunelon, a minor [elven](Elf "wikilink") nobleman.
Through contacts within the Imperial Dwerchan Trading Company Korerida
secured favourable mana import deals that allowed them to quickly
dominate the Erothenian talisman market, out-competing the Dwerchan
companies that could only trade through the IDTC. In 1916 Korerida
Bunelon was appointed chairman of the IDTC and used his power to favour
his personal corporation now ran by his son Korerida Lethoran. The
company expanded rapidly with the beginning of the industrial
revolution, leading the forefront in mana-based medicine, agriculture
and even weaponry.

The family secured their control over the IDTC during Korerida Bunelon's
rule, a development that was seen as threatening by the King. In 1934
Bunelon's term was restricted to last only another two years after which
the IDTC would be restructured and placed under the control of the
Dwerchan State, serving as a vassal of the kingdom. The plans came to an
end with the revolution of 1935 that saw the end of the monarchy and the
establishment of the Erothenian Republic. In the aftermath of the
revolution the Imperial Dwerchan Trading Company was dissolved, with 80%
of its assets transferred to the Korerida Corporation which now held a
monopoly on the mana exports from the vassal state.

### Dwerchus War

### Post-War Era

[Category:companies](Category:companies "wikilink")