Although [Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink")'s main language is the
[Malaszec language](Malaszec_language "wikilink"), the country has many
speakers of other languages due to its history. The most used spoken
languages used in Malaszec are all part of the Malaszec language family,
including Malaszec Feyspeech and Dwarven Vernacular Malaszec. The latter
arose due to language contact during the dwarven migrations from
[Erothena](Erothena "wikilink"), sharing features from the languages of
the Erothenian dwarves. Due a higher frequency of deafness in the
southern [faerie](faerie "wikilink") wards, especially in Dovreija and
Rescija where the ambient mana level is low, there is a large Malaszec
signing community. Malaszec Feysign is distinct from Serszec Sign
Languge, which developed independently in Serszec among humans and
elves.

## Malaszec language family

The Malaszec language family contains all the most widely spoken
languages in Malaszec, including the country's official language. The
languages in this family are split into the Northern Malaszec languages
and the Southern Malaszec languages; the northern languages include
Malaszec and various Elvish minority languages, while the southern
branch only has one surviving language, Malaszec Feyspeech.

### Malaszec

*See also [Malaszec language](Malaszec_language "wikilink")*

The Malaszec language is the official language of the country and the
most widely spoken. Official documents from the government are always
written in Malaszec first, then translated to the country's other
official language, Malaszec Feyspeech. Because of its ubiquity in daily
life and in business, almost all residents of the country speak
Malaszec. Malaszec is written with the Latin-derived Malaszec Alphabet
or Malaszec Braille for the blind.

### Andeijan

*See also [Andeijan language](Andeijan_language "wikilink")*

The second official language in the country, Andeijan (aka Malaszec
Feyspeech), is used primarily in the southern wards among faeries.
Despite its status as one of the official languages, even in the faerie
wards Malaszec Feyspeech it is not especially common. In the faerie
wards, the official education curricula, which are used by ward schools
or borrowed for homeschooling, promote and teach Malaszec Feyspeech. The
language became one of the official languages during the formation the
Malaszec People's Republic as a condition for the Faerie territories
being absorbed into the country, and has retained its status through the
dissolution of the Communist state.

### Elvish minority languages

Aside from Malaszec, the Northern Malaszec languages also contains
various elvish languages that form a dialect continuum with Standard
Malaszec. Many of these languages were more distinct before the various
states that unified the Malaszec humans and elves, but have since become
closer with increased contact and the dominance of Malaszec in the
country. There are some communities working to preserve the heritage of
their elvish languages. Some controversy has arisen about whether these
languages should be classified as dialects of Malaszec, as they are to
some degree mutually intelligible and come from a common ancestor.

### Dwarven Vernacular Malaszec

Considerable language contact happened after the dwarven migrations from
Erothena, forming a creole. Over the years, the process of
decreolization occurred leading to the current form of Dwarven
Vernacular Malaszec (DVM). It is mutually intelligible with Standard
Malaszec, and is regarded by some in the country simply as grammatically
incorrect Malaszec. In reality DVM has its own matured grammar, with
many features found in Erothenian dwarf languages. It is typically used
among dwarves in casual contexts, but generally never in formal ones due
to stigmatization in the country.

## Sign languages

There are two major sign languages in use by residents of Malaszec,
Malaszec Feysign and Serszec Sign Language, each having developed
independently of the other. The Malaszec Federation for the Deaf (MFD),
an organization for the advancement of Malaszec sign language, is often
consulted by the Chamber of Commerce for matters regarding accessibility
for the deaf. In particular, the MFD is in part responsible for the
convergence of vocabulary between the country's two sign languages.
Although the two language's grammars are not compatible with each other,
the MFD tries to align the citation form of new words in both languages
so that they are at least similar. Because of this, it is sometimes
possible for signers of one language to glean the gist of what signers
of the other is saying.

### Malaszec Feysign

The higher rate of being born deaf in the faerie wards led to a
significant signing community, especially in the Dovreija and Rescija
where lower ambient mana levels increases this frequency. Humans,
dwarves, and elves born there are not affected in the same way, although
many of these people living in the faerie wards learn Feysign anyway.
Feysign originated in Andeija, the historical center of Malaszec faerie
culture. After the forced relocation of many faeries to Dovreija and
Rescija during northern invasions, incidents of faerie deafness grew.
Until the middle of the Communist era and the Dovreijan Boom, most deaf
faerie children were sent to Andeija where the deaf schools were by the
government for their education. These individuals brought back the
Feysign native to Andeija, which spread Malaszec Feysign across the
faerie wards.

#### Virtual Reality Malaszec Feysign

In the early stages of consumer-level virtual reality, motion tracking
technology could not capture all the phonemes of sign language without
being prohibitively expensive. Despite this, a flourishing online
virtual reality deaf community arose and new conventions were adopted as
a workaround to the limitations of technology. In particular, non-manual
signals and complex hand shapes were difficult to get across using the
technology of the time. Since the Malaszec faeries constituted the
largest deaf community with access to online VR, the modified Malaszec
Feysign became the lingua franca of deaf VR users. These collective
modifications became grammaticalized, forming what linguists call
"Virtual Reality Malaszec Feysign" (VRMF).

At the time VRMF was most divergent to standard Malaszec Feysign, the
language had been acquiring loanwords from other sign languages around
the world thanks to the cultural exchange that online VR provided.
Phonemic wing movement was either reduced or eliminated by some signers,
similar to how non-faerie signers of Feysign in the real world ignore
wing movement due to lack of wings. As motion tracking technology
improved, VRMF started to converge back to standard Malaszec Feysign.
However, due to ease of communication with international signers and as
a matter of unity among the deaf VR community, VRMF did not disappear
and continues to be used.

VRMF has influenced standard Malaszec Feysign and Serszec Sign Language,
as vocabulary from VRMF has made its way to both languages outside of
VR. In particular, many signs describing VR gaming mechanics and
loanwords from foreign sign languages came to the standard Malaszec sign
languages through VRMF. Usage of signs and grammar more common in VRMF
has also been used among deaf gamers as a means of self-identity.

### Serszec Sign Language

Serszec Sign Language developed independently from Feysign and is used
primarily among the humans, elves, and dwarves. It was developed in
Serszec where, similar to Feysign, deaf schools were and deaf children
were sent for their education. The grammar of Serszec Sign Language and
Malaszec Feysign is incompatible, although increasing vocabulary
convergence makes it easy for signers of one language to glean the gist
of utterances made by signers of the other language, at least in
comparison to other sign languages.

[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")
[Category:Languages](Category:Languages "wikilink")