**Lu'umil**, officially known as **The Confederation of Lu'umil**, is a
tropical country inhabited by -insert ranting here-. The country is
mostly jungle. Geographically, it makes up the majority of the Lu'umil
Penninsula, although it also covers the (NORTHERN ARCHIPELAGO/ISLANDS).
A majority of the population is indigenous, belong to the
[síinik](síinik "wikilink"), [marabunt](marabunt "wikilink"),
[arachne](arachne "wikilink"), or other native species, although there
are large and important populations of non-native- primarily
[Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink") and Erothenan [elves](Elf "wikilink"),
humans, and [faeries](Faerie "wikilink"). Lu'umil's only neighbor is the
country of [Erothena](Erothena "wikilink") to the southwest.

## History

### Early History

I was thinking of very old times, when the Romans first came here,
nineteen hundred years ago—the other day.... Light came out of this
river since—you say Knights? Yes; but it is like a running blaze on a
plain, like a flash of lightning in the clouds. We live in the
flicker—may it last as long as the old earth keeps rolling! But darkness
was here yesterday. Imagine the feelings of a commander of a fine—what
d’ye call ‘em?—trireme in the Mediterranean, ordered suddenly to the
north; run overland across the Gauls in a hurry; put in charge of one of
these craft the legionaries—a wonderful lot of handy men they must have
been, too—used to build, apparently by the hundred, in a month or two,
if we may believe what we read. Imagine him here—the very end of the
world, a sea the colour of lead, a sky the colour of smoke, a kind of
ship about as rigid as a concertina—and going up this river with stores,
or orders, or what you like. Sand-banks, marshes, forests,
savages,—precious little to eat fit for a civilized man, nothing but
Thames water to drink. No Falernian wine here, no going ashore. Here and
there a military camp lost in a wilderness, like a needle in a bundle of
hay—cold, fog, tempests, disease, exile, and death—death skulking in the
air, in the water, in the bush. They must have been dying like flies
here. Oh, yes—he did it. Did it very well, too, no doubt, and without
thinking much about it either, except afterwards to brag of what he had
gone through in his time, perhaps. They were men enough to face the
darkness.

### Precolonial History

### The "Dark Peninsula"

### Great Jungle War

I SEE A RED DOOR AND I WANT IT PAINTED BLACK-

### Contemporary Era

## Government

*See also: [this is a placeholder so i don't lose this
formatting](this_is_a_placeholder_so_i_don't_lose_this_formatting "wikilink")*

There is certainly a government!

### Military

In the empty immensity of earth, sky, and water, there she was,
incomprehensible, firing into a continent.

This is a placeholder, too, if you can't tell.

## Culture

### The Horror! The Horror!

<img src="some_pic_lol.png" title="some_pic_lol.png" width="320"
alt="some_pic_lol.png" /> These chaps were not much account, really.
They were no colonists; their administration was merely a squeeze, and
nothing more, I suspect. They were conquerors, and for that you want
only brute force — nothing to boast of, when you have it, since your
strength is just an accident arising from the weakness of others. They
grabbed what they could get for the sake of what was to be got. It was
just robbery with violence, aggravated murder on a great scale, and men
going at it blind — as is very proper for those who tackle a darkness.
The conquest of the earth, which mostly means the taking it away from
those who have a different complexion or slightly flatter noses than
ourselves, is not a pretty thing when you look into it too much. What
redeems it is the idea only. An idea at the back of it; not a
sentimental pretence but an idea; and an unselfish belief in the idea —
something you can set up, and bow down before, and offer a sacrifice to.

This is a placeholder, as well, if you can't tell.

[Category:countries](Category:countries "wikilink")