In Malaszec, all Zloije have marriage law except for Rescija, which has
had no legal marriage for any species since 1932. Among most Malaszec
faeries, marriage is seen as a non-faerie institution introduced by the
Final Imperial Malaszec regime and was abolished in Andeija, Rescija,
and Dovreija during the Malaszec Communist Revolution. Dovreija later
reintroduced legal marriage in 1950 due to the growing
marriage-normative population, and Andeija reinstated legal marriage,
but only for humans, elves, and dwarves in 2033 to ban same-sex marriage
after the beginning of the Marriage for Love Movement in Malaszec in
2032. As a result of this movement, same-sex marriage and
different-species marriage (aside from elf-human marriages which were
already legal in all marriage-legal jurisdictions) gained legal
recognition in Dovreija (in 2032), Nordarijn (2035), Agerszijn (2036),
and Serszec (2037). Regardless of the differences, marriages in one
Zloije are generally not recognized in any other Zloije, so couples must
re-marry if they move from one Zloije to another.

## Origins

Modern marriage law in Malaszec is descended from marriage law in the
Final Malaszec Empire, which arose from the unification of various
similar marriage traditions in Northern Malaszec, which were
heteronormative and did not allow for different-species marriages. The
codification of marriage law was done to create a stable system of
arbitration for political marriages and inheritance law across the
empire. Marriage between elves and humans were allowed under this system
mainly because it was common in political marriages. This system was
later imposed upon the faerie Zloije of Southern Malaszec where marriage
was uncommon. The dominant Malaszec faerie societies were matrilineal
and matrilocal, where the matriline lived in a single tree and the
caretakers of faerie children were the mother and the mother's brother
while the father remained with his matrilineal tree. Although faerie
society had rules regarding who may enter into a relationship, the legal
system of marriage imposed by the Imperial Government was incompatible
with the faerie tradition and seen as a tool of oppression by the
empire, which led to the abolition of legal marriage by the faerie
Zloije during the Malaszec Communist Revolution. The later reinstatement
of legal marriage in faerie Zloije are typically done for the sake of
non-faeries.

## Marriage for Love Movement

The legal recognition of same-sex and different-species marriages in
some Zloije was spurred by the Marriage for Love Movement in 2032. The
movement began after the relationship between Lazja Venowic, a female
faerie working for Dovreija ZE, and Ilre Sarlej, a female elf working
for Astlod ZE, became known to the public in 2031. At the time,
cooperation between the Zloije was rocky in the Malaszec Federation,
which had formed only a few years earlier. As a result, the joint
bioprospecting mission between Dovreija ZE and Astlod ZE into the
Heartland was widely publicised, and with Lazja Venowic and Ilre Sarlej
both on the same team on this mission, their relationship became
publicised as well. The greatest initial opposition to this movement
stemmed from Astlod, and its corporate body Astlod ZE fired Ilre Sarlej
under pressures to respond to the situation, stating in a press release
that their relationship was "contrary to the natural order," and that
they would re-hire her if she renounced her relationship in public. The
movement was strongest in Dovreija, which had a history of cohabitation
between faeries and non-faeries throughout much of the country's
communist era, as well as a significant population of dwarves from
Erothena, there the norm is gender-fluidity. Naturally, supporters of
the movement were outraged by the Astlod decision, and under mounting
pressures, Dovreija legally recognized their relationship in 2032. This
was expanded to all same-sex and different-species marriages later that
year.

With the movement's first major victory, the movement strengthened and
more voices of same-sex and different-species couples across Malaszec
were getting heard through protests and through the fledgling world wide
web. The movement had strong support in Nordarijn, where there was a
large Erothenan dwarf population. When Dovreija recognized Lazja and
Ilre's relationship, the business partnership between Dovreija and
Astlod was dissolved, and so Dovreija sought a partnership with
Nordarijn instead to destigmatise their recognition of the marriage.
This led to recognition by Nordarijn, and both Zloije began a PR
campaign promoting this, soon to be joined by Nordarijn and Serszec.
Lazja and Ilre later criticized the commodification of their
relationship as a result of this campaign, questioning whether this
recognition was out of genuine concern for civil rights or simply the
fear of losing profits.

[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")