**Narja Aswaija Kostoven** (16 March 1916 - 6 November 1953), later
known as Asalij Kasija Lasven, was a [Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink")
biollurgist famous for creating [Talzos
Lasven](Talzos_Lasven "wikilink"), a magically-altered
baobab-[ent](ent "wikilink") who is currently the president of the heavy
machinery company Talzoseija TZe. Narja's education at the University of
Serszec was cut short in 1933, when the civil unrest leading up to the
start of the 1934 Communist Revolution led her to flee to the
then-Imperial Malaszec Colony of [T'annkirne](T'annkirne "wikilink").

She was thought to have disappeared until 2041, when the Asalij Journals
had been deciphered, revealing that she had returned to Malaszec under a
new name in 1936 due to the independence revolution in T'annkirne. As
Asalij Lasven, she worked various jobs before working as a project
director for the Malaszec People's Agricultural Commission (MPAC) to
develop fertilizers in response to impending food shortage triggered by
the [Dwerchus](Erothena "wikilink") refugee crisis in 1939.

Some years prior, she had undertaken an experiment to create a sentient
faerie-sized house by crossing a smuggled T'annkirne ent seed with a
Malaszec hollow baobab, which she believed could could revolutionize
faerie housing. She named the ent who grew out of the seed Talzos
Lasven. Government auditors discovered Narja was embezzling funds for
Talzos while she was program director for the MPAC, and she was executed
in 1953 following a public corruption hearing.

## Asalij Journals

During her lifetime, Narja kept various journals known as the Asalij
Journals, which were written in a unique cipher and script. Most of the
journals remained undeciphered until 2041, when computational techniques
cracked the code for 9 of 12 known journals, revealing the link between
Narja Kostoven and Asalij Lasven. The remaining 4 journals are thought
to have been lost, but are known to exist due to being referenced in the
other nine journals.

The currently deciphered 9 journals have provided a detailed account of
daily life in the final years of colonial T'annkirne and early communist
Malaszec and have been studied extensively. From their references in the
9 journals, the 4 earlier journals are likely accounts of Narja's early
life leading up to her departure from Imperial Malaszec.

## Trivia

- Narja Kostoven was posthumously awarded an honorary degree in
  biollurgy by the University of Serszec where she attended before she
  fled to Malaszec T'annkirne in 1933.

[Category:People](Category:People "wikilink")
[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")