*Netchat* is an instant messaging protocol that allows users to connect
to chatrooms hosted on netchat servers to connect with other users
connected to the same server using netchat clients. Each netchat user
can set a nickname to use on the server they are connected to, and are
able to send text, images, and other files to other users. While many
netchat servers are open to the public, server operators may choose to
set a password for access or whitelist clients based on their public
key. Netchat is an encrypted protocol, meaning that a third party cannot
read or modify the content of chat messages being sent across a network
unless they are able to break the encryption.

As netchat is merely a protocol, there are many implementations of both
netchat client and server software. Users can use any netchat client to
connect to any compatible netchat server. One popular netchat server
software is *netch.at Server*, which fell into controversy on the June
28, 2071 when it started bundling adware that would occasionally relay
ads to connected users.

Some governments and other organisations block netchat traffic on their
networks due to subversive material or for productivity reasons. For
example, [Dovreija](Malaszec "wikilink") blocked all netchat traffic for
about a month in May 2052 because of its use by the militant separatist
group Argusz Erendal for planning. Users have been known to bypass these
restrictions by doing things like tunneling traffic through the
LayerNet.