**Sphaerium**, natively **Dholeus Margej** (*"Curve within Completion"*,
*"Circle"*) and *T'onaesa Magaj* among [K'aajite
Expatriates](Palmist_Diaspora "wikilink"), is a game within the Thrown
Ball family, related to Coins and [Club Ball](Club_Ball "wikilink").
While the exact date that Sphaerium was first played is unknown, the
first records of Sphaerium come from an edict in 325 by the Matriarch of
Ortheatia who declared it sinful for soldiers to play the game while not
on campaign.

Sphaerium is the third most common professionally played sport- only
barely beat by Club Ball and Mitzan. Professional Sphaerium is overseen
by the [League of Sphaerium
Guilds](League_of_Sphaerium_Guilds "wikilink") since its incorporation
in 1832.

## Gameplay

The game has players toss game balls (traditionally "Coins", but
professionally "Spheres") at a target ball called the "Rock"- the "Moor"
in certain Edventyurist dialects- from a predetermined spot called the
"Circle". The game is played between two players and is judged by either
an audience or a single referee (the "Host").

In league standard play, Players stand on either side of the court and
the Host tosses the Rock as close to the center as possible. The side
closer to the Rock is first to play with players alternating throws each
play. Coins are tossed underhanded into the play area. Points are
counted at the end of the game. For each coin a player has within a
circle with its center at the Pebble and its radius equal to the
distance to the innermost coin of the opponent, the player earns one
point. If both players' coins are of equal distance to the Pebble, the
game is a draw.

Coins are taken out of the field for foul throws, with the most common
conditions for fouls being the Coin exiting the play space or the player
exiting the Circle when tossing a Coin.

Sphaerium play spaces are usually rectangular or circular and be defined
by a gravel-soil or sandy surface. While league play demands a flat play
space, casual play isn't as strict, just requiring bounds and roughly
even, sandy terrain.

While league play has 5 coins, casual play ranges from 2 to 12 coins per
player, with extended play having the judges return coins to players
from the outermost toss in.