**Talzos Asalija Lasven** (born 31 December 1936) is a magically-altered
baobab-[ent](ent "wikilink") currently the president of the heavy
machinery company, Talzoseija TZe. Talzos was originally a natural ent
seed smuggled out of the former Imperial Malaszec Colony of
[T'annkirne](T'annkirne "wikilink") and was magically crossed with a
native Malaszec baobab biollurgist by [Asalij
Lasven](Asalij_Lasven "wikilink"). Due to the magical alterations,
Talzos is both hollow and immobile, unlike most other ents. Not only is
Talzos the president of Talzoseija, but is also the company's main
headquarters and a popular tourist attraction. His permanent address
*Talzos Asalija Lasven, Lasven, Malaszec*.

Talzos was planted on New Year's Eve 1936 in the human-faerie integrated
district in Lasven. As a sapling and a young tree, he was mobile and
attended school. As he reached adulthood, he began losing his ability to
walk, and by 1961 had permanently settled down in his present location.
In this state, he was unable to attend university himself, but offered
lodgings to faerie students and professors of the nearby University of
Andeija's Lasven campus, asking for tutoring in exchange. His popularity
led to the creation of the Wisdom Tree Society, a student society
dedicated to Talzos' education and upkeep.

As Talzos continued to grow, so did his dietary needs. Talzos took a
keen interest in engineering, and got involved with the Wisdom Tree
Society in creating irrigation technology for his own dietary needs. His
engineering experience led to his eventual employment by the Malaszec
People's Agricultural Commission, and in 1994 he became a program
director designing irrigation systems being constructed as a result of
the [Dovreijan Boom](Dovreijan_Boom "wikilink").

Following the formation of the Malaszec Federation in 2027, he was
appointed president of the newly created Talzoseija TZe, the heavy
industry subsidiary of Andeija ZE.

## Etymology

Talzos Asalija Lasven follows a traditional Malaszec faerie naming
tradition, consisting of a given name, a matronymic name, and a place of
birth. Talzos was planted in the city of Lasven by [Narja
Kostoven](Narja_Kostoven "wikilink"), or Asalij as she was known at the
time. The given name "Talzos" is a portmanteau of Malaszec *talz*,
meaning "home" and *olos*, meaning "many" or "people," a reference to
the original purpose of Talzos' biollurgical alterations, which was to
produce a new kind of faerie housing.

## In popular culture

- Talzos Lasven is the mascot of University of Andeija: Lasven.

[Category:People](Category:People "wikilink")
[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")
[Category:Places](Category:Places "wikilink")