---
title: Architecture_in_Malaszec
layout: wiki
---
Within [Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink") are many cities of various ages.
Older cities like
[Dorovec](Wards_and_cities_of_Malaszec#Dorovec "wikilink") contain
historic neighborhoods with buildings from centuries ago that still
stand. Some of faerie cities are entirely inaccessible to big people, as
they were not built with cohabitation in mind. The increased
cohabitation in modern times has led to intersize design, which takes
safety in mind. The Urban Green is another architectural style
originating in Malaszec, which developed as a reaction to the fall of
the [Malaszec People's
Republic](Malaszec#Formation_of_the_Federation "wikilink") and a desire
to reduce pollution. In modern architecture, there is significant
interplay between the ideas of each philosophy.

## Intersize design

Due to the cohabitation of faeries and the larger non-faeries in the
modern era, buildings are built with this in mind. This is known as
*intersize design*. Buildings for non-faeries can often be retrofitted
with faerie-accessible designs, but this is not the case for buildings
that start off as faerie-only buildings. Because of this, new
big-accessible city centers were created near formerly all-faerie
cities. Often these new city centers and the old city grow into each
other over time, forming a big city with a faerie-only historical city
center and residential zone, a mixed transition zone, and the newer
intersize developments.

A prominent example of intersize architecture is faerie zoning for
otherwise very large residential buildings. Intersize-zoned buildings
generally contain one or two floors or mezzanine levels with housing for
faeries, which have a smaller size footprint. In more economical
residences, units are cramped and high density, like public housing. In
more upscale areas, faerie levels contain additional amenities like
swimming pools, local markets, and community centers all in the same
floor.

Safety is a critical consideration in intersize design, as the small
size of the faerie may be hard to see for the big people. One simple
safety feature often seen is the urban faerie garden, flower beds in
front of faerie doorways large enough that big people avoid. These serve
not only as safe staging areas for faeries to take flight, but can also
function as urban farms.

## The Urban Green

![](Esterlod_architecture.png "Esterlod_architecture.png") An
architectural style popular in Malaszec's elven cities is the Urban
Green, a synthesis between the economical, utilitarian styles of the
Communist era and new ideas of eco-friendly design. It was created as a
reaction to the formation of federal Malaszec, which sought to
differentiate itself from the Communist past while utilizing any
leftover pieces it could. The biggest complaint by urban dwellers,
especially in the north, was the pervasive pollution that came out of
factories, which the Communist government built a lot of. With the
advancements to renewable energy, buildings were designed with the
placement of solar panels and vegetation in mind. Sloping designs were
popular because not only were great for putting solar panels on, but
they were also good for sun-heated water tanks and provide a good view
for security cameras without having to sacrifice visual cohesiveness.

These new designs were initially well received, receiving commendations
for its commitment to sustainable development. As the style matured,
developers wanted to maximize the energy output that their buildings
could generate while still following municipal building codes. This led
to a phenomenon where windows became smaller and smaller as the surface
area was repurposed for more solar panels. A criticism made by opponents
to this phenomenon was that while these buildings would look excellent
from the outside, they often felt more like prisons on the inside due to
the lack of windows. Combined with the fact that most housing is
corporate-assigned and therefore claustrophobic multi-tenant buildings
(including faerie-sized mezzanines), living inside is less than ideal.

## Hostile Architecture

An important facet of designing buildings in Malaszec is hostile
architecture (also known as defensive architecture), which aims to stop
people from doing things you don't want them to do near your building.
For example, the benches in bus shelters are often built at a slight
incline or bisected by planters to prevent people from sleeping there.
Lights built near floor level provide visibility at night but also
prevent floor sleepers. Roofs of shelters discourage loiterers with gaps
in it which lets rain and leaves fall on you if you're not in the
correct spots. Municipal law in many cities also requires some kind of
barrier on high rooftops to prevent people from injuring themselves,
accidentally or intentionally.

[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")