---
title: Arev_Incident
layout: wiki
---
The **Arev Incident** was a ecological accident in June 14 of 2047 that
caused the countryside surrounding the former town of Arev to become
infested by genetically modified fungi named KANSOS-1.
[Esterlod](Wards_and_cities_of_Malaszec "wikilink") Petrochem, who
engineered the fungi in attempt to produce biofuel, had been using Arev
as a testing ground for its products due to its low population. The
initial fungicide meant to contain KANSOS-1 failed, leading to the
disaster.

### The incident

In June 14 of 2047, Esterlod Petrochem tested KANSOS-1, a new strain of
a fast-growing fungi that ate simple mana and turned it into high-energy
mana. In theory, the fast-growing nature of KANSOS-1 kept deployment
costs down, and only needed to be bounded by a special fungicide marking
the border of the production zone. The only problem was the fungicide
didn't work, so it kept spreading across the Arevian countryside.
Esterlod had to dig massive ditches to contain the spread and spray new
fungicide along the border.

They didn't spray the inside of the infected area, since that would have
been expensive and the land it grew on was worthless now anyway, so
Esterlod covered it up by telling everyone the ditches are a new mining
system despite the fact that the interior is brimming with writhing
masses of fungi. People got curious about it, and now nobody is allowed
within several kilometres of the affected area.

### Conspiracy theory

According to one popular conspiracy theory, the town of Arev is still
inhabited, despite the fact that the entire Arev exclusion zone is
overrun with rapidly-growing fungus leeching all the nutrients from the
soil. Supporters of the Arev conspiracy theory point to satellite
imagery depicting vaguely humanoid figures and the fact that if you
measure electromagnetic waves in the area surrounding the exclusion zone
that you can pick up signals that are too uniform to be natural, so they
must be manmade. However, the electromagnetic waves are best explained
as either 1) old, abandoned equipment that still hasn't used up its
batteries yet or 2) hidden devices around the exterior of the exclusion
zones that alert security when people are trying to get too close to the
writhing masses of invasive fungi.

[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")