---
title: Blue_Faerie-Eater
---
<figure>
<img src="bluspooder.jpg" title="bluspooder.jpg" width="320" />
<figcaption>bluspooder.jpg</figcaption>
</figure>

The **Blue Faerie-Eater** is a species of tarantula native to southern
[Lu'umil](Lu'umil "wikilink"). On average, the body of the spider
measures about 28 cm long, although it rarely goes about 35cm
(notwithstanding bedtime stories about 50cm long spiders that drag away
naughty [faerie](faerie "wikilink") children that don't listen to their
mothers).

They require mana intake to survive; a resource plentiful in native
Lu'umil wildlife. It is believed that this mana is what gives them their
characteristic blue sheen, as well as the strength to, in some
individuals, jump up to 10 times its own body length should the need
arise. It might also explain its reputation, given fairies' relatively
high amount mana-to-body ratio. Further research has shown that Blue
Faerie-Eaters typically do not go after fairies when easier food is
available. The rumor that they subsist primarily on fairies is believed
to date back to stories told during [Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink")
colonization efforts, when fairies among others would disturb the
habitats of the tarantula. Generally speaking, it is no more dangerous
to fairies than larger wildlife was to larger colonists, perhaps even
less so given its lack of stamina. The reputation- and name- probably
came from the Blue Faerie-Eater's nature as an ambush predator with a
surprisingly vicious jump.

When well-fed, they are fairly docile, although not recommended to keep
as pets due to their high maintenance and requirements to keep
contained.

[Category:Species](Category:Species "wikilink")