---
title: Club_Ball
layout: wiki
---
**Club Ball** or **Ueus Seholios** (*"Course of the Sun"*, *"Daily
Agenda"*) is a game within the Thrown ball family, related to
[Sphaerium](Sphaerium "wikilink") and
[Tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tag_(game)). While the Club Ball
League has existed in some way, shape, or form since 1204 (with the
formation of the [Blessed Rounders'
Guild](Blessed_Rounders'_Guild "wikilink")). The [modern
league](Palmist_League_of_Club_Ball_Guilds "wikilink") has only existed
since 1910, with its modern league specifications being defined in 1897.

## Gameplay

Club Ball is composed of 2 teams of 9 people. The two teams are the
"Rounder" team and the "Striker" team.

Each game is composed of *"Dags"* (Days), *"Uges"* (Weeks), and
*"Chuckles"* (from *"Odineros"*, derived from
[mz.](Malaszec_language "wikilink") *"Odinran"*) a Week is composed of 9
Days, and a Chuckle is 4 Weeks long. League play is usually 4 Chuckles
long, though casual play is usually just 1 Chuckle.

The Striker Team has two terrestrial positions- the Striker and the
Pitcher- and seven nautical positions in the Sea.

The Rounder Team is composed solely by Rounders.

Each play of a Dag begins with the Pitcher tossing a ball- prior to the
Millennial League Reforms "the Coin", but the "Ball" since- underhanded
from the Bheus. As soon as the Ball crosses the Borderland, as many
Rounders cross the Borderland across the World as they wish.

If the ball is held or touches a Rounder not on a Holder, the Rounder
must return behind the Borderland and the Striker team wins a point.

Every rounder who runs the perimeter of the Holders and then back behind
the Borderland wins the Rounder team one point.

A Dag ends when all Rounders are on a Holder and the Ball is in the hand
of the Pitcher on the Carrier again.

If the ball enters the Afterlife, all on-Holder Rounders advance one
Holder sequentially or over the Borderland. If the ball can't be
reasonably retrieved by Nautical positions, they advance 3 Holders.

Once the Dag has ended, Rounders cannot leave their Holder until the
next Dag begins. Every Uge, the teams switch roles.

The winner has the most points by the end of the game.