---
title: Containment_Operations_Initiative
layout: wiki
---
The **Containment Operations Initiative** (commonly abbreviated as the
COI) is an paranational military organization that was created prior to
the [Corporate Wars](Corporate_Wars "wikilink") in order to contain and
combat mana-based life or mana-enhanced life that proved too dangerous
for species inhabiting the world, which they have done in the [General
Exclusion Zone](General_Exclusion_Zone "wikilink") and [the
Rot](The_Rot "wikilink"). Although the first organizations dedicated to
the eradication of fantastical fauna was founded in the late 1990s and
early 2000s, the COI was formed as stipulated by the [Treaty of
Portsmouth (2020)](Treaty_of_Portsmouth_(2020) "wikilink"). Following
the [Corporate Wars](Corporate_Wars "wikilink"), international support
of the group largely faded, as the COI and international community began
to come into conflict over the exploitation of resources within the
exclusion zone. This lack of support led to the organization splintering
into hundreds of chapters dedicated to the protection of localized
regions of the exclusion zone, with politics between chapters being as
complex as any other international community. Although control of the
group legally remains with the General-Secretary of Containment
Operations, lack of large-scale cohesion has led to each chapter
effectively being its own separate organization.

## History

### Pre-COI Groups

The COI can trace its roots back to adventurer's guilds of the
pre-corporate and pre-industrial age. These groups were more concerned
with personal gain and the glory of killing the monsters that terrorized
nations, but their effects were still felt. These guilds were eventually
integrated into Police Forces and Militaries, with Adventuring branches
of both continuing to defend against monsters. Between 1950 and 1999,
these groups began to see greater autonomy until the first Adventurers
Bureau was founded in 1999 in \[nation\]. Following this, similar
agencies were founded across the continent. As technology also improved,
the fields of Magizoology and Biollurgy began to use these Agencies to
study the effects of Mana on flora and fauna. In 2000, the Containment
and Research Department of \[Nation\]'s Adventurers Bureau. This would
be the foundation for the COI, which would be founded 20 years later.

### Treaty of Portsmouth

In 2020, 11 signatory nations signed the Treaty of Portsmouth. This
treaty stipulated that all members help support the COI and subsidize
it's creation. However, due to political turmoil, Malazec was forced to
back out of the treaty.

### Breakup of the COI

The lack of support led to the various chapters of the COI to become
fractured.

## General-Secretary of Containment Operations

The General Secretary of Containment Operations is the *de jure* leader
of the COI's chapters.

## List of Chapters of the COI

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Name</p></th>
<th><p>Logo</p></th>
<th><p>Nation</p></th>
<th><p>Status</p></th>
<th><p>Notes</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Malaszeknos LfR Lajzjanfos <em>(COI Containment Group of
Malaszec)</em></p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Flag_of_communist_malaszec.png"
title="Flag_of_communist_malaszec.png" width="200" />
<figcaption>Flag_of_communist_malaszec.png</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p><a href="Malaszec" title="wikilink">Malaszec</a></p></td>
<td><p>Dissolved</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><em>OFD-Tid ta Bonbonvakeg Deid-Votnod K.F.Zh</em> (The Most
Glorious Guild of Adventurers, COI Frith)''</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Flag_of_MGGA_COI_Frith.png" title="Flag_of_MGGA_COI_Frith.png"
width="200" />
<figcaption>Flag_of_MGGA_COI_Frith.png</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p><a href="Name_Pending" title="wikilink">[Name
Pending</a>]</p></td>
<td><p>Dissolved</p></td>
<td><p>The Frith was effectively ended following the Corporate Wars, but
was never dissolved in an official capacity.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>