---
title: Faerie
---
Faeries are sentient bipeds who are notable for their small size and
colourful wings. They owe their small size to the mana they are infused
with at birth, which both shrinks every cell in their body as well as
empowers their wings with magical flight. Favouring life in mana-rich
areas, faeries require constant exposure to mana sources in order to
live a normal length lifespan. They have been known to form large social
groups, often with other sentient species.

## Biology

### Physiology

On average, faeries stand 22 cm tall and have a wingspan of 12 cm. The
small size of their bodies is due to the mana with which they are
infused with at birth. The mana both holds the cells of their body to a
very small size as well as empowers their wings with magical flight.
Without magic flight, the wings of the faerie do not generate enough
lift for the dense body of the faerie. Because of their high
mana-to-body weight ratio, faeries require constant consumption of mana
to live a normal length lifespan.

Faeries are unable to reproduce with most other humanoid species.

### Diseases

#### Mana deficiency

Mana deficiency occurs in faeries that do not consume enough mana in
their diet, either through mana-infused water or food. Most faeries can
go without consuming mana for years without issue, but will eventually
reach a point where this is no longer sustainable and the faerie loses
the ability to fly. This is the first sign of mana deficiency, as
shutting down magical flight conserves mana needed for the body to hold
itself together and the wings themselves cannot lift the dense body.
Left untreated, there will no longer be enough mana to hold the body's
cells to their small shape and cells will expand one by one. The
condition is terminal if it affects vital organs; if this happens in the
brain, it causes symptoms similar to Alzheimer's in humans.

The typical treatment for mana deficiency is taking mana supplements
(colloquially known as "pixie dust") to restore the body's mana level.
However, in old age, the body will fail to produce enzymes required to
break down mana for their cells and mana deficiency is inevitable no
matter how much supplement is consumed.

## Distribution

Although faeries tend to favour mana-rich areas to live in, faeries in
highly mundane areas can live a normal lifespan given enough mana-rich
foods or supplement. For this reason, there are many faeries who live
outside of their magical ancestral homelands and can be seen living in
any environment that a human can.

### Malaszec

The first known [Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink") faeries formed societies
in the the country's southern savannas. Their sizeable kingdoms of the
early days eventually fell to Malaszec's northern empires leading to the
forced migration of many. Of those who were forced to move, many were
resettled in the country's southwestern steppes and deserts, considered
desolate at the time. Since then, greater freedom of movement led some
to return to their ancestral homes. Some remained where they were
resettled, particularly those who live in places discovered to be rich
in minerals and oil. Others now live in parts of the country not
traditionally inhabited by faeries.

### Bangsalaya

Faeries, alongside humans, are one of the two major species groups found
in [Bangsalaya](Bangsalaya "wikilink"). Descending and migrating from
the southern Malaszec
([Andeijan](Wards_and_cities_of_Malaszec#Andeija "wikilink")) faeries,
their first settlements and city-states were located around the several
manaceous river valleys of the Suarna peninsula. Today, they make up a
significant portion of Bangsalayan society. A majority identify as
Diwatan, however there also exists several other minor people groups
(including the Numalayans in Sugbu, and Dream Fairies in the
southeastern region).

## Notable faeries

- [Narja Kostoven](Narja_Kostoven "wikilink") (16 March 1916 - 6
  November 1953, AKA Asalij Lasven): Malaszec faerie famous for creating
  the magically modified [ent](ent "wikilink"), [Talzos
  Lasven](Talzos_Lasven "wikilink"). Also wrote the Asalij Journals, a
  set of personal diaries written in a unique script which remained
  undeciphered until 2041.

[Category:species](Category:species "wikilink")