---
title: Ilasrom
layout: wiki
---
**Ilasrom Oronkan** known internationally as **Farmhand Ltd.**, is a
[Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink") company providing security, courier
services, and utilities usually under the umbrella of municipal
services. It originated as a Astlodian black market during the Malaszec
communist era, and became incorporated as a legitimate company in 2031.
It is notable for providing municipal services to rural Malaszec, with a
greater service area for its security force than any of the Zloije
combined. It is also the main law enforcement contractor for the Dorovec
Capital District.

# History

Ilasrom got its start during the middle of the country's Communist Era
as an illegal enterprise. It operated a black market in rural Astlod,
not only selling drugs and weapons, but also toilet paper and other
necessities when the draconian distribution laws caused a shortage. When
the communist government collapsed in 2027, unshackled by distribution
and movement laws, the newly privatized Zloije were free to sell
products wherever they could. Ilasrom was gutted of its black market
profits, and it seemed that it would become a shadow of its former self.

However, after years of the new government, one thing became clear for
rural residents. None of the Zloije were interested in providing
services for small towns and villages. Simply put, it was unprofitable.
People stopped getting mail from their family and friends. People
started burning more trash in their backyards because garbage collection
ceased. Say what you will about the communist Malaszec surveillance
state, at least it deterred violent crime. It was in filling this void
that Ilasrom made its name.

Ilasrom was incorporated in 2031. Like many other newly incorporated
businesses of its time, it was considered small fry by the giant Zloije
and mostly ignored until it was too late. By leveraging the resources it
had been growing under the table for decades under communist rule, it
was able to provide mail and security services to dozens of small towns
at a price. The beginning of this new direction for Ilasrom proved
rough, since most rural communities were relatively poor and profit
margins were slim. However, as technology advanced and the company grew,
Ilasrom became profitable through economies of scale. It grew from
serving a couple dozen to hundreds of towns and villages by 2045, and
now provides rural electrification, security, waste management, and a
myriad of other services.

# Business Model

Residents of rural Malaszec are usually dependent on Ilasrom, who keeps
its services affordable though its "responsive service philosophy."
Instead of maintaining permanent offices in every one of the hundreds of
villages it supports, personnel and equipment zip over to the sites
where they're needed. For the right price, they will investigate
anything, no matter how frivolous. Sheriff's offices and regular patrols
are the exception, not the norm, and are only available for customers
willing to pay the higher price. Such customers include the Malaszec
Government, which auctions off law enforcement contracts for the Dorovec
Government District.

Outside of Malaszec, Ilasrom is known as Farmhand Ltd. and rigorously
fights over government contracts to provide the services it already does
in its home turf. It makes numerous bids for control of population nodes
in [\[Name Pending](Name_Pending "wikilink")\] and is also known for its
private law enforcement division worldwide. From investigating corporate
records to guarding VIPs, Ilasrom does it all.

[Category:companies](Category:companies "wikilink")