---
title: Itsorijk_Narestos
layout: wiki
---
The toy department of the People's Household Goods Commission had never
been a priority to the Communist Malaszec government. Malaszec kids'
time is best spend outside, after all, and sports equipment was already
manufactured by the sports department, sponsored by the Cultural
Commission which hosted the national games, beloved by all. Every child
wanted to be like Sarjek "Lightning Bolt" Kostova, the best Team Mitzan
player in all the universe. Meanwhile, children outgrew their stuffed
animals and dolls quickly, and it's not as if the toys division ever had
anything new to offer them.

That's why the toy department was the best place to put a man like
Itsorijk Narestos in 1995, who just a year prior caused the disastrous
Model 8801 oven, which had been in installed in hundreds of government
tenements, to be forcibly recalled due to a manufacturing defect under
his supervision. Yes, the toy division, small and inconsequential was
the perfect place for him, where he can pretend to be in charge of
something while causing no trouble to the higher-ups at all. It was
there in the PCHG toy division where the story of the Narestos toy
empire began. A dusty government office of faux-wood grain desks piled
to the ceiling with old papers and spare equipment from other
departments.

Narestos had a bright mind that was always racing with ideas, and since
nobody really cared what his department did, he was free to make all his
ideas come to light. His first idea was to repurpose the playing
card-printing equipment that had fallen into disuse, since the
government was trying to curb gambling by halting card production. He
knew kids loves sports, and loved playing pretend. As a kid, he and his
friends used to assemble pretend teams of famous Mitzan players, and
argue about whose team would beat the others', and he wanted to capture
that experience. Thus the Mitzan trading card was born. It was a simple
game: each trading card had a picture of a famous Mitzan player, with
strengths, weaknesses, and abilities matching up to their real-world
performance. You'd assemble a team with your cards, along with some
reserve players, and face off against your opponent's team. The more
successfully you faced off, the more points you earned. Whoever had the
most points at the end of a match would win.

He was dismissed at first by the People's Cultural Commission for the
representation rights of famous Team Mitzan players, but his sheer
persistence won them over. To dispel the association between card games
and gambling, he pitched his TCG as a game of math and statistics, and
pointed out that the rules had no gambling involved. Distribution began
January 1996, but the game did not have much initial success. Nobody
really knew what the cards were, so few actually bought them. To the
higher-ups, it seemed the PHGC toy department was to remain in obscurity
as expected, but Narestos didn't give up. He decided to send a huge
production run of trading cards to the Food and Agriculture Commission
for free to distribute singles of his cards with popular snacks, which
everyone thought was a huge waste of money and would get him fired for
sure. However, this strategy gave his cards the exposure they needed.
Kids started playing this neat new card game with their favourite Mitzan
players, and when they wanted to get an edge on their friends, they'd go
and ask their parents to buy them a whole pack of these cards. Thus a
whole subculture of Olosjan, or card-heads, was born.

There were card-heads at every school and every playground. The card
craze was inescapable. Kids who had just finished a Mitzan match would
sit down only to play with Mitzan cards, swapping cards with each other
trying to build the best teams. New cards released every so often, with
new and updated stats and abilities. You could even face off new players
with old players who weren't even in the league anymore, since new
players were added as cards when they joined the National League.
Trading cards had become a phenomenon, and during the height of the card
craze, trading cards for different sports emerged, and the Mitzan TCG
even gained a competitive scene of its own.

Although in 2071 physical Mitzan trading cards are very much a thing of
the past, their legacy lives on. Janlej Interactive TZe, the computer
game studio most known for resource management and 4X games like
Population Node, has used Mitzan cards in every user interface for its
game series, Mitzan Pro League Team Management Simulator. Janlej
Interactive itself is one of many spinoffs of the modern toy brand, Toys
n' More, which was created out of Narestos' PHGC toy division during the
formation of the Malaszec Federation. Without Narestos and his trading
card game, Malaszec's multi-billion Proj toy and game industry wouldn't
exist as it is today.

[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")