---
title: Karlien_II
---
High King Karlien II, also known as the "Tinkerer King", was a High King
of the Palm from 1799 until his death in 1862. He is best known for his
patronage of tinkerers, pansexual harem, and reviving Adventuring
culture during his reign. He was a Contemporary to Queen Urendin Beretha
the Sun Queen.

Following High Queen Illa VI's death of Typhus in 1799, High King
Karlien II was coronated in Slugside Harbor upon his return from
K'ahjaan with his Adventuring Guild on an expedition to determine if it
actually existed. Upon his ascension, High King Karlien invoked the
Iterret. As such, H.K. Karlien was able to continue with his hobbies of
exploring and Tinkering without having to be tied to Kongipol- his court
following him on his adventures. Personally responsible for the Singing
Brass Bird of Sondheim, H.K. Karlien the Tinkerer King was well known
for his personal interest in supporting Palmist industry. Inspired by
Urendin and Malaszec development, along with his time learning as King
of the Palm, he personally believed that the adoption of the Assembly
Line and research into mechanical engineering would cause the Palm to
become preeminent in what he dubbed "the coming Age of Clockwork".

While research into clockwork and friction machines did help the Palm
become a regional manufacturing capital, the lack of wealth within the
Palm and continuing issues with Luddism and several popular Uprisings by
Western Milkmaidens and Urban Manufacturers along with High King Karlien
II's deep belief in Immaterialist principles of Laissez-faire sociality
prevented proper organization and investment of resources and industry
to allow the Palm to truly benefit from pockets of tinkerers and
watchmakers who were able to produce the precursors to modern Palmist
inventions.

During the rule of High King Karlien II, wheellocks and gyroscopic
compasses replaced harquebuses and will o'wisps in many Adventuring
guilds. His rule also saw the adoption of Pants by the monarchy, as
Karlien II wore Adventurist Pants for the bulk of his reign due to
frequent campaigning. The many incursions into the Alskog helped revive
the magic trade within the Palm. The Revival of the Magic Trade and
sporadic moments of innovation within the Palm were the source of much
profit by the Purple Sea Concessions, as the sale of clockwork
inventions and mana from the Palm abroad by Merchants helped to line the
coffers of Urendin and help catapault artisanal and intellectual
development decades ahead, with the principles and concepts introduced
by Wheellocks and primitive Traction Devices helping guide Urendin and
Erothenan Steam Age technology.

High King Karlien II's adventuring also caused an art revolution in the
Western Palm, with the Noble Idyll motif coming from this period. While
High King Karlien II would die in 1862 of Stomach Cancer, the concepts
arising during his reign along with the sudden resurgence of Magic
allowed for the creation of the first Automatons and precursors to
magic-based flintlocks in the 1860s. Development of Magic-integrated
Clockwork sped up until the 1880s when mana consumption grew so common
among inventors that most Palmist intellectuals died. With their death,
the 'Clockwork Revolution' came to a close, as the Mages filled the
space left by their deaths. This shift in influence, among other things,
helped create the conditions that would go on to cause the Luddite Wars
and the rebellion of the Guild of the Palm (which split into what is now
the Blue Army and the Army of Adventurers).