---
title: May_Restoration
layout: wiki
---
The **May Restoration**, or 30th of May Incident, was a coup d'Ã©tat in
the [Kingdom of Urendir](Erothena "wikilink") on May 30 1938, launched
by members of the Erothenian nobility together with a cadre of young
army officers. The rebels seized control of the Erothenian government,
executing the Royal Chancellor and declaring the constitution of 1936
dissolved with the King restored to absolute power. Their control of the
capital would last for fourteen days before being forced to surrender to
the forces of the Erothenian revolution. All the main instigators of the
coup, apart from the king, would be sentenced to death and executed
while the common soldiers received lighter punishments.

The nation-wide outrage sparked by the May Restoration is considered the
starting point of the June revolution that would see the Urendin
monarchy ended and the beginning of the Republic of Erothena.

## Background

The "Civil Coup" of 1936 saw the establishment of the office of the
Royal Chancellor and a transfer of direct executive power from the king
to this new office. Although the king had originally accepted the
constitution of 1936 he quickly began undermining the new government by
using his powers of veto and pressuring regional governors to disobey
the Chancellor.

The Feathered Serpent Society was a secret society and social club with
many members from both the lower nobility and among military officers,
members of the society began planning a coup in early 1938 to remove the
unpopular Chancellor and restore royal absolutism in the belief that it
was the only way to save the nation from an imminent communist
revolution like that in [Malaszec.](Malaszec. "wikilink")

## Coup

On the morning of the 30th of May units from the Royal Army stationed
outside Thinetavu mobilized and marched into the city. The royal
chancellor and a number of other high ranking members of the Elder
Council were murdered in their own homes by soldiers while the rest were
allowed to enter the council chambers only for the building to then be
surrounded and everyone inside arrested. Finally the king was escorted
from the palace to the council chambers to formally declare the
constitution defunct and the Elder Council dissolved.

Across Thinetavu other military officers and government officials
considered disloyal were arrested with the aid of the Thinetavan Police
Force which was under the control of the conspirators.

[Category:Erothena](Category:Erothena "wikilink")