---
title: Neo-Orcism
---
**The Neo-Orcish Movement** began in [Erothena](Erothena "wikilink") in
the early 2010s, formed around important cultural thinkers like Garesh
Yokar. With entire generations of orcs born away from their traditional
homelands and raised with the Republics Elven National ideology it had
become a real fear that Orcish culture might die out, compounded by the
emerging megacorps like Korerida rapidly competing out and removing the
remaining traditional ranchers.

Members of the movement compiled as many histories, traditions,
mythology and art as they could find to educate especially the Orcish
youth in their history. Youth centres, museums, and even sports teams
among other organizations were created in the name of the Neo-Orcish
movement to create and strengthen their revived national identity. There
was also an attempt to revitalize the Orcish language which was largely
unsuccesful, by 2068 only about 8% of Orcs can speak it fluently and
fewer speak it as their native language.

The early movement was allied with similar groups protecting other
minority identities like the Dwarven Cultural Union. They were all part
of the wider left counter culture of the early 21st century that opposed
High Elven hegemony and the growing power of the megacorps. But after
Garesh' death in 2022 the movement splintered with the new mainstream
consolidating around Buneveka Opoare who distanced herself from the
socialists and began emphasizing different traits of what was called the
"Orcish Character".

Tribal differences were downplayed in favour of the idea of a singular
Neo-Orcish culture that focused on their military history. To be an Orc
was to be a warrior, a loyal and fearless member of their great
community. The Neo-Orcs presented themselves as an essential part of
Elven culture and history rather than in opposition to it.

## Gyatäy

The 2030s saw the beginning of the Gyatäy, a new tradition in which
young orcs were sent to the homelands to spend a few months a year
living the traditional life and learning their rituals and history from
the orcs still living there. The farmers and ranchers are paid to
provide for these youths while also getting to make use of them as
unpaid labour which has become a vital income to prevent their
bankruptcy in the face of megacorp pressure. But they are in turn
pressured by the Gyatäy organizers to provide the "correct" traditional
views. Ironically, parts of traditional Orcish culture has been
permanently lost as it has been replaced by the Neo-Orcish ideology.

[Category: Erothena](Category:_Erothena "wikilink") [Category:
Orcs](Category:_Orcs "wikilink")