---
title: Oloromnal_Quantum
layout: wiki
---
Oloromnal Quantum Computers ("OQ") was created in 2044 after it spun off
from Agerszijn Computing Research, where it had originally been
developing quantum computers. Its main service is cloud quantum
computing services and database management. Developers, researchers, and
scientists give OQ something to process on their in-house quantum
computers, who send back the results on conventional computers. It's
biggest customers are enterprises and governments who have large
databases to query, complex simulations to run, or cryptographic keys to
break. For example, Saep'ek Metropolitan Authority in
[K'ahjaan](K'ahjaan "wikilink") uses OQ technology to administer its
Social Credit Score services.

## Logo

The logo is OLOROMNAL QUANTUM joined together with its first letter in
superposition, which is read differently depending on which word is
being read (observed). Panja, the cat in the box, represents the
company's flexibility to use quantum computing for a wide variety of
applications. It is unclear whether the mascot is named after the
company's first quantum computer, Panja-1, or if the computer was named
after a developer's cat named Panja. Panja is the same cat depicted on
the cover of *Quantum Oracle Design*, a book about quantum computing by
Runa Liszic.

## Notable Products

### Panja

Panja is OQ's flagship line of quantum computers. The first model,
Panja-1 entered development some time before the company spun off from
Agerszijn Computing Research. Originally, Panja-1 was being developed
under contract from the Malaszec government for an undisclosed purpose.
The 20-qubit quantum computer was eventually released in 2044, the same
year the company was created.

### oqDB

oqDB was released in 2049 as the first commercially available quantum
database, which requires quadratically fewer queries for database
searching compared to conventional databases. oqDB supported the
familiar Structured Query Language from launch, which made it easy for
developers to transition from a conventional database to oqDB. Along
with the oqDB software, the company launched a cloud quantum database
service called Qloud, which allows clients to use quantum databases
without needing a quantum computer to host their own.

### Janejal

Janejal is the first quantum [oracle](Clairvoyance#Oracles "wikilink")
and was made public in 2066. Its technology builds on the same quantum
computing principles used in oqDB to quickly evaluate the answers of
large reading arrays. It is the first practical usage of Rilnev's
algorithm, a previously theoretical approach to oracle equation
generation optimized for quantum computation. Reportedly, work had been
underway on the design and construction of a quantum oracle since before
the OQ's spinoff from Agerszjin Computing Research. This has led some to
believe that this was the original purpose of creating Panja-1.

[Category:Companies](Category:Companies "wikilink")