---
title: Oneirology
layout: wiki
---
**Oneirology** is the study of dreams, the events which occur within
dreams, the rules which govern the dream reality, and the affects that
the normal world have on dreams. Although not all dreams are magical in
nature, i.e. altered or induced by the presence of mana, its importance
makes it considered by many to be a magical science. There are two main
classifications of oneirological study: outer oneirology, which deals
with effects the normal world have on dreams, and inner oneirology,
which studies the content of dreams.

## Dream mechanics

In sleep situations with an abundance of ambient mana (mana not in use
by the body), people tend to experience a universe bound by the same
rules and histories in their dreams as dreamers in similar non-dream
world environments. In modern oneirology, dreams are classified into a
*coherence scale*, which measures the amount the dream world is bound by
logical rules. Research suggests that the coherence of dreams is
proportional to the inverse square of the strength of ambient mana in or
around the dreamer, and that the rules and even historical contexts of
dreams are similar in coherent dreams. In contrast, incoherent dreams
tend to be random, hard to follow, and lack structure.

## Artificially-induced coherent dreams

Due to the correlation between ambient mana and the coherence of dreams,
it is possible to artificially create coherent dreams by altering the
presence of mana surrounding the dreamer. The most effective means to do
this is by giving a subject mana supplement. It is not strictly
necessary to go to sleep to achieve a dream, especially in situations
with exceptionally high ambient mana, although this can be extremely
dangerous for a variety of reasons. Despite this, many ill-advised
individuals attempt this for recreational purposes.

Aside from mana, it is likely there are a variety of factors affecting
the probability of having a coherent dream. Dream talker communities,
have a high rate of people regularly experiencing coherent dreams. A
study by Kaskij et al. in 2010 showed that dream talkers in Malszec
residing in Dovreija can have coherent dreams, even with low mana levels
in the environment.

## Oneirolinguistics

Oneirolinguistics is an inner oneirological field studying languages in
the dream world, called oneirolanguages. In coherent dreams, dreamers
are able to learn to read and listen to languages that do not exist in
the normal world. Languages around the world have oneirolinguistic
influences. For example, the Malaszec Alphabet is descended from the
Latin script, which is from the dream world.

Oneirolinguistics is an important field of study for international trade
and diplomacy because oneirolanguages are not restricted by geographical
location in the normal world. English is a common oneirolanguage, and
without geographical barriers, dream talkers around the world have
learned it. Artificially-constructed auxiliary languages have been
proposed which are influenced by one or more oneirolanguages. Auxlangs
often have a simplified grammar so speakers don't need full fluency in
any oneirolanguage to understand.

[Category:Magical studies](Category:Magical_studies "wikilink")