---
title: Pataphysics
layout: wiki
---
**Pataphysics** is the study of hyperreal and irreal regions which are
formed under certain hyperthaumic conditions in which the distinction
between perception and reality become unclear. In hyperreal spaces, mana
is expended to materialise perceived entities which would not be there
in normal reality. Irreal spaces are the inverse of hyperreal
spaces.<sup>\[clarification needed\]</sup>

## Hyperreal spaces

In a hyperreal space, perceiving the hyperreal space in a certain way
will cause the space to become the way it is perceived. For example, if
one believes they see a book in hyperreal space, a book will
materialise. Non-real entities that are materialized due to hyperreality
are called *hyperreal entities* or *counterfactual entities*. The entity
requires thaumic power proportional to its deviation from reality to be
sustained, and as long as it has this power, it will continue to exist
even when taken out of hyperreality. The less power it can draw, the
more it will degenerate into something consistent with reality, and
disappear completely when it has none. For example, it is easy to
sustain a simple book outside hyperreality, but "the god of war" will
degenerate quickly outside hyperreality because of how outlandish it is.

If the hyperreal space is perceived in multiple conflicting ways, the
hyperreality that requires the least thaumic power to sustain will
materialise. For example, two people who walk into a hyperreal space
might agree there is a cat next to a tree, but disagree on whether the
cat is a regular cat or a cat the size of a horse that shoots lasers.
The regular cat will materialise because it is more consistent with
reality and requires less power.

Since the continued existence of a hyperreal entity requires continuous
power, hyperreal entities in hyperreal space will eventually expend the
mana energy necessary to sustain the hyperreal space. In other words,
hyperreal entities can contribute to the collapse of the hyperreality
that created them.

### Implications

#### Mana Mining and Adventuring

Since hyperreal entities can be dangerous and cause hyperreal energy to
be expended, the manifestation of such entities is undesired in mana
mining and adventuring. As a result, mana miners and adventurers with
the least imagination and the greatest skepticism tend to be selected
for work in hyperreal zones in order to prevent hyperreal entities. The
Pskavitoff-Ilaskoja test is a psychological test for measuring these
qualities in potential candidates. In addition, remote-controlled
technology is widely used because they can be operated outside the
hyperreal zone it's deployed in.

[Category:Magical studies](Category:Magical_studies "wikilink")