---
title: Storytelling_Day
---
**Storytelling Day** is a [Malaszec](Malaszec "wikilink") holiday
celebrated during the winter solstice featuring the Storytelling, when
the community's Storyteller retells one of thirty-eight stories from
Malaszec animism (or other important lore, especially in non-human
dominated communities). The Storyteller is chosen up to six months
beforehand according to their service to the community, and is supported
by various mages and/or actors who provide special effects and acting
performances to enhance the experience. East story takes approximately
the amount of time for the roasting of the Storytelling Rotisserie, a
traditional Storytelling Day food which is served immediately after the
storytelling. People then go with friends and family to eat and discuss
the story. Those who have nobody to eat with go to a shrine and are
known as Shrine Spirits.

Storytelling Day originated in human-dominant parts of Malaszec, but has
since spread to other parts of Malaszec as well. It is practiced in
foreign countries, especially by members of the Malaszec diaspora.

## The Storytelling

The storyteller is chosen up to six months in advance according to their
service to the community. In cities, each neighborhood may have a
storyteller, whereas a rural village may have one for the entire
village. The Storyteller is granted the title of Storyteller of their
community (e.g. Storyteller of Kaloznizdec), even if they are not chosen
for Storyteller again.

In communities that tell the original thirty-eight stories from Malaszec
animism, the stories are always told in order each year so that the same
story is only told every thirty-eight years for Storytelling Day. The
Storyteller is expected to memorize the entire plot and to tell it from
their own perspective, as if a firsthand bystander to the events of the
story. Malaszec humans sometimes colloquially refer to years by the
story told in the last Storytelling, so the Year of the Moth is 2069
because The Moth, the Crow, and the Moon was told on Storytelling 2068
and so on. Communities that do not tell the animism stories often select
epic poetry, plays, or other significant lore.

Optionally, the Storytelling is accompanied by mages who provide special
effects for the storytelling and actors who act out characters in the
story according to the narration. The Storytelling has evolved over time
in order for communities to outdo other communities and incorporate
influences from other cultures. For example, influence from the
[Erothenan](Erothena "wikilink") Heranares fire festival led to the
incorporation of fire magic, where the rotisserie fire is colored and
bent into the dancing shapes of key elements or characters in the story.

## The Feast

Stories last for approximately the time it takes for the Storytelling
Rotisserie to roast, which is traditionally lamb or beef. The food
itself is not exclusive to Storytelling Day, though it is traditional to
cook and eat it then. Once served, people go to eat and discuss the
story with friends and family, who may have prepared their own foods to
go along with the Rotisserie. Those who have nobody to go with often go
to the shrine and are known as Shrine Spirits, in reference to the lost
spirits thought to inhabit shrines dedicated to Malaszec animism.

An offering must be made to enter the shrine during the Storytelling day
feast, and it is not necessary to believe in Malaszec animism to enter.
The shrine serves food to go with the rotisserie and places to sit with
other Shrine Spirits. Since shrines during the feast are frequented by
lonely singles, they are popular spots for finding new relationships.

## The traditional thirty-eight stories

The traditional thirty-eight stories of Malaszec animism are told each
year in order in human-dominated communities. They do not necessarily
have any relation to each other, although they take place in the same
universe. Once a story has been told one year, the next story is told
the next year.

| Number | Story                 | Year name        | Synopsis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Last told |
|--------|-----------------------|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| 11     | The Moth and the Moon | Year of the Moth | The moth, a butterfly banished by the sun, awakens to the land of darkness. He asks the crow, bringer of gifts and a trickster in equal measure, for another sun. While the moth sleeps, the crow creates the lamp. The moth gets close and realizes it is not what he expected, and the crow offers him a new sun for a price. The moth pays, is unsatisfied again, and after several transactions, the crow eventually creates the moon. The crow tells the moth that he has created a sun, and that it is simply very far away. Thus the moth flies towards the moon, forever, never to reach it. | 2068      |

The Traditional Thirty-Eight Stories

[Category: Malaszec](Category:_Malaszec "wikilink")