---
title: Síinik
---
Síinik are sapient bipedal pseudo-arthropods recognizable by their red
skin, four arms, and partial exoskeletons. They are native to
[Lu'umil](Lu'umil "wikilink").

## Evolution

Like most pseudo-arthropods, the evolutionary processes that led to the
síinik are not fully understood. Most closely, they resemble a hybrid
between humans- bipedal sapient mammals of some size- and ants- small
(even though the examples found in the Lu'umil peninsula are much larger
than is typical) eusocial insects. The obvious differences between the
two species síinik most resemble rules out any cross-breeding such as
with the half-Elvish Orcs of [Erothena](Erothena "wikilink"). They are
often presented as a stark example of Manafic Gigantism's
"evolutionarily borrowing" for this reason- the result of an insectoid
species being exposed to mana in their underground hives for hundreds of
thousands to millions of years.

## Biology

### Physiology

Síinik are pseudo-arthropods, meaning that they have a partial
exoskeleton. Their exoskeleton covers the lower half of the body
alongside the arms, chest area, lower half of the body, and segmented
"supports" along the spinal column. The remainder of their skeletal
system is instead similar to endoskeletons found in other vertebrates.
Evolutionarily, this most likely arose to overcome the square-cube law.

Síinik sex is based on haplodiploidy sex-determination instead of the
more common XY system. Males are haploid, meaning they only have one set
of chromosomes, while females have two sets of chromosomes.

### Pheromones

Although síinik often seem to communicate without talking, they are not
psychically linked in any way: the process is explained through complex
pheromones. They aren’t complex messages; That is, one worker could not
say “There are bees here, let’s leave immediately” through pheromones,
but she could convey the impression that this area is dangerous, and
further pheromones in the direction of her withdrawal would inform her
sisters as to where she went. "Sending messages" in pheromones is less
like sending a letter and more an empathic ability, sharing feelings
with those around them.

While all síinik use pheromones to some extent, the exact use often
depends on their caste. Workers' pheromones are the most basic, mostly
or entirely the message-type pheromones mentioned prior. Aneri have
their own set of aphrodisiac-esque pheromones used to increase their
appeal to potential queens. Princesses and queens especially communicate
their own wants and needs through pheromones. Active queens also have a
pheromone that prevents another princess from maturing into a queen.

### Life Cycle

The life cycle of a síinik starts with an egg. If the egg was
fertilized, this produces a female. If the egg is not fertilized, it
produces a male. Eggs incubate for roughly two weeks (14 days) before
hatching. At this point, the larvae has entirely soft skin, and is
almost entirely helpless. As with adults resembling adult humans and
ants, larvae resemble a cross between a human fetus and an ant larvae.
They consume large amounts of nutrients as they rapidly grow. For the
first generation of a new colony, the Queen will often nurture them
personally, but as the colony grows into a hive-city she is instead
preoccupied with continuous egg-laying and ruling, leaving childrearing
to workers and aneri.

The infant consumes liquid food at first- most often created by mashing
food used by the rest of the colony into collected water or juice to
form a slurry-like substance. As they grow, however, they transition to
solid food. Unlike insects, they do not possess a pupae stage. Instead,
it is a gradual- although naturally very fragile- process.

### Caste System

#### Workers

The overwhelming majority of individuals in a síinik city-state are
females who, collectively, perform almost every task required to
maintain it: farming, hunting, construction, soldiering, maintenance, et
cetera. They are the shortest-lived caste; Other things equal, their
average lifespan is normally a little less than humans in the same
environment.

Most workers do not have a functioning reproductive system- it is
present, but vestigial, rendering them sterile. Approximately 1.5-2% of
síinik workers do possess a fully-functional reproductive system. In the
absence of an active queen, they will be able to reproduce and lay eggs.
Normally, these workers do not develop into full queens- lacking the
metasoma required for mass egg gestation/laying, they instead function
as a stopgap until a princess emerges to find a queen. However, there
have been documented cases where fertile workers have developed into
full queens. This has led to strange situations in síinik populations
outside of hive-cities: mercenaries or diplomatic missions overseas have
to take care to vet their personnel properly to prevent this occurence.

#### Princesses

In the prepubescent larval stage, if a larvae is fed enough mana-rich
food, they will develop into a princess instead of a worker.
[Ku'kau](Ku'kau "wikilink") fruit is the traditional means of achieving
this due to its extremely high mana-per-volume, thus the massive
importance placed upon it in síinik culture. They have a much longer
lifespan than workers, on average living twice as long.

Compared to workers, princesses tend to be taller and more lithe. The
primary distinguishing physical feature of princesses is the wings on
their backs, allowing for them to fly for limited periods of time.
Unlike most workers, they possess a sex drive, although they are unable
to gestate eggs due to the pheromones of an active queen (or, more
recently, replications thereof) functioning as a form of birth control.

#### Queens

In a traditional hive-city, the queen is the undisputed leader. Her word
is law, as she is the mother (or at least a favored daughter of the
former mother) of most of the population.

A queen is, biologically, a “sexually active” princess. In lieu of an
active queen producing a specific pheromone, a princess becomes a queen
after mating. She loses her wings and gains an external metasoma that
serves, alongside the reproductive system within the main body, to
gestate several eggs at once. Once a queen starts to lay eggs, she is
more-or-less committed to continuously laying, as there will be no more
active queens rising up within the area.

Despite the queens' theoretically unlimited power, every caste has its
role, and the role of a síinik queen is to lay eggs. Should the queen
become unable to lay eggs- be it from age, accident, or disease- her
throne is all but forfeit. Queens, when properly fed and cared for, have
a lifespan comparable to elves.

#### Aneri

Aneri (singular: aner) are the males of the síinik species. A Tilivean
researcher once proclaimed aneri "single-purpose sexual missiles," which
is only accurate from a reductionist and strictly biological standpoint.
Although on average physically weaker than females of all castes, they
still live about as long as workers.

Traditional treatment of aneri has brought accusations of blatant sexism
from outside observers. Regarded as something between a harem and
servant class for princesses and queens, they are typically prohibited
from both administrative roles exercised by the princesses and the jobs
of the workers.

## Culture

Síinik society is traditionally organized in large-scale underground
city-states.

Currency- in the form of Ku'kau fruits (the fruit gives the name to the
currency of the modern Confederation)- was used almost exclusively as a
medium of exchange for trade. Instead, work towards the hive was
rewarded by being supplied food, shelter, and other needs and amenities.
Princesses tend to take the output of their subjects' labor in addition
to this.

## Distribution

### Lu'umil

Síinik are native to Lu'umil, and make up a majority of the population
of the nation. Historically, síinik have dominated the mainland jungles
and have been divided into feuding city-states.

[Category:Species](Category:Species "wikilink")