---
title: Wards_and_cities_of_Malaszec
layout: wiki
---
*This article is about wards as geopolitical entities. For the related
corporate entities, see [Zloije
(business)](Zloije_(business) "wikilink").*

![](Wards_of_malaszec.png "Wards_of_malaszec.png")
[Malaszec's](Malaszec "wikilink") wards, also known as Zloije in the
[Malaszec language](Malaszec_language "wikilink"), are administrative
divisions decided during the country's Communist era that have since
been sold to private individuals. Presently, they are run similarly to
corporations in other countries, but meet regularly in the country's
Chamber of Commerce decide national law.

Below the ward level are entities like counties, cities, and villages.
Important areas, such as counties and cities that have some kind of
economic or strategic value, are managed by companies subsidiary to the
ward they are in. Less important areas, like villages and hamlets, are
generally not managed as closely since micromanaging them is
unprofitable. Usually, they form their own local community leadership,
although they are still subject to the whims of the ward they're in.

## Agerszijn

![](Agerszijn.png "Agerszijn.png") **Capital: Dermije**

Historically known for its mineral wealth, Agerszijn has been overtaken
by Dovreija in the mining industry. Thanks to the success of
Agerszjinijekeposzvec, the science and technology park built in the
country's Late Communist era, Agerszjin now leads the country in
technological and scientific innovation.

<figure>
<img src="Agerszijn_Mana_Recycling_Center.png"
title="Agerszijn_Mana_Recycling_Center.png" />
<figcaption>Agerszijn_Mana_Recycling_Center.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Agerszijnijekeposzvec

Agerszijnijekeposzvec, which means "Agerszijn Science City," is a
science and technology park built in the late Malaszec Communist era.
Because Agerszijn was historically known for its extensive mining
industry, the newfound mineral wealth of the Dovreija Deserts that
overshadowed Agerszijn left the ward in a bind. With all of Agerszijn's
minerals shipped up north for value-added industries, the ward never
established the manufacturing base that could supplement its diminishing
mining business. With quality of life lowering, the governor of
Agerszijn was determined to bring business back. He founded
Agerszijnijekeposzvec next to a small annex of the Agerszijn
Agricultural College in the countryside, where ecological research was
being conducted. He would gather the ward's greatest minds to the new
city, and envisioned a place of innovation and high-tech research that
would propel the ward into the growing technology industry.

When he ran out of funds allocated to his project by the Malaszec
government, he spent his own personal wealth developing the city until
he was almost broke. By the time the city's design was complete in 2026,
the dissolution of the Malaszec People's Republic was in effect and his
ward was sold off to wealthier individuals. Although he would never see
the fruits of his labour, the people of Agerszijnijekeposzvec now live
in the largest and most economically active city.

Having been designed in conjunction with the ecology department of what
is now Agerszijn University, the city was designed like an arcology. It
has an extensive underground walkway and mass transit system, solar
farm, mana recycling center, and vertical urban farming structures.

## Andeija

**Capital: Lasven**

Home to a menagerie of magical creatures and tidal mana rivers, Andeija
is the ancestral homeland of Malaszec's native
[faeries](faerie "wikilink"). Infused with rich mana from the ground,
the mana rivers flood the riverbanks with its river water, protecting
the area from savanna fires and promoting the growth of magical plants.
Large baobabs grow here, in which many faeries make their home. Holding
the former capitals of fallen faerie states, Andeija's land is a small
fraction of the faerie kingdoms that came before it. Now populated
mainly by faeries afforded the right to stay in their homeland after
being conquered by northern invaders, the ward is known for its magical
landscapes and arcane agriculture. Even the cities are teeming with
magical plants, which grow in every corner of every street.

Lasven contains the country's first districts designed to integrate
faeries and Bigs, with buildings utilizing [intersize
design](Architecture_in_Malaszec#intersize_design "wikilink"). These
districts were constructed during the communist era for the central
government to better administrate the faerie wards. Lasven is also home
to [Talzos Lasven](Talzos_Lasven "wikilink"), a magically-modified
[ent](ent "wikilink") who is a corporate headquarters and a popular
tourist destination.

## Dovreija

![](Highways-of-dovreija-2024.png "Highways-of-dovreija-2024.png")
**Capital: Anelije-Darvec**

Created as a place to put faeries displaced by northern invasions into
former faerie territory, the once desolate desert ward has since been
transformed into a buzz of industrial activity after the discovery of
mineral wealth during the Communist era. This mineral discovery and the
period of success following it is known as the Dovreijan Boom. Since
faeries were put in charge of the ward and given great autonomy by the
Communist Malaszec government, as the ward was thought worthless at the
time, the combination of greater economic freedom and newfound resources
made the ward the fastest growing ward in Malaszec by the time the
People's Republic dissolved. The ward's contribution to the country's
GDP has since been surpassed by the northern wards during the Malaszec's
diversification to service and technology industries. Public projects
such as the desert irrigation and mass transit systems from the bygone
era remain in the present, now operated under corporate governance.

### Anelije and Darvec

Most of Dovreijan land is desert, so most of the population lives in the
Anelije-Darvec metropolitan area near the water. With the increased
economic activity in Dovreija spurred on by the Dovreijan boom, the
non-faeries people started to move to Dovreija. Because of their large
size, they were unable to live in Anelije, a city built for faeries.
Instead, they established Darvec nearby. Since then, Darvec and Anelije
has grown into each other, forming the Anelije-Darvec megalopolis.

After Dovreija was privatized, the cities of Anelije and Darvec were
merged under Anelije-Darvec TZe and administered as one entity.

## Rescija

**Capital: Vendara**

Like Dovreija, Rescija was created to put faeries displaced by northern
invasions into former faerie territory. Though many faeries had already
been living there in the east of Rescija, an area formerly considered
part of Andeija, the area was redistricted in order to fit the "divide
and conquer" agenda of the national government. Part of drawing the
border between Rescija and Dovreija included the Lozdlejne Concession,
stretching the ward to the far west of the country to give it access to
the Lozdlejne Sea bordered by three other wards.

Economically, the ward mainly exports agricultural products. Cattle and
sheep are staple products of Rescijan industry, although in the east
there is a notable apotheceutical industry due to the firesurfer shrub
which grows there. The firesurfer grows in mana soils within arid
climates prone to prairie fires. When the shrub is being burned, it
releases its seedhead which resembles a feather and rides the pressure
differentials created by the heat. The structure of the mana within the
seedhead generates its own pressure differentials resembling faeire
flight, which gradually match with the natural frequency of the heat
convection in the air, moving the seedhead great distances to a place
where there is no fire. The firesurfer is used to create
high-concentration mana supplement for faeries suffering from [mana
deficiency](faerie#Mana_deficiency "wikilink"). The low ambient mana in
western Rescija and Dovreija significantly raised the number of mana
deficient faeries, creating a major market for eastern Rescija.

## Serszec

**Capital: Dovorec**

Holding the current capital of the country, Serszec is home to many
historic buildings and tourist attractions. The ward also has the
country's largest manufacturing base, processing ores and minerals from
the south into value added goods. Industrial cities are highly
automated, with drones and robots omnipresent in the factories and in
the skies.

<figure>
<img src="DLR_Felijan_Station.png" title="DLR_Felijan_Station.png" />
<figcaption>DLR_Felijan_Station.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Dovorec

Having been the capital of various Malaszec states throughout history,
Dovorec is sprawling with historic buildings and modern constructions
alike. Dovorec is the capital of Serszec and contains the Dovorec
Government District, which is the capital of Malaszec. The Dovorec
Government District is a rare case of federally managed territory; the
Chamber of Commerce governs the district directly rather than the ward.
This is in order to prevent a conflict of interest so that Serszec
cannot legally force the closure of government buildings using city
ordnance. The rest of Dorovec is managed by the Serszec ward.

[Category:Malaszec](Category:Malaszec "wikilink")